[MUSIC]
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah,
let me just check out that branch.
And then I'll remove that config and show
you the problem with not including this.
So now if I run npm run test or
npm test or npm t.
All of those are the same.
>> Kent C Dodds: And I'm going to get this
handy dandy coverage summary right here.
And this is the exciting part.
So this is the text reporter,
the text-summary.
That's what I'm seeing right
here is that text-summary.
It also generates a JSON file and
LCOV report.
And as part of those reports inside
of this coverage, there's an LCOV
report directory that has all of
the code coverage reports for my app.
So if I open and it's an index HTML so
we can open this in a browser.
So open the lcov-report/index.html.
That will give me this pretty
almost web appy looking thing
where I can look at code coverage.
So this is cool,
I can see what lines were covered.
Looks like because we required the module,
it ran this line one time.
But because we're not actually calling
any functions on it or anything,
we're not getting any coverage here.
For all these prototype assignments,
we're covering those lines.
So yeah,
we have a lot of work to do on this file.
But there's one problem here.
And that is that it's including our
controller test file as well and
reporting code coverage for that.
So anybody who wanna venture a guess
why this would be a problem?
>> Speaker 2: You're
not testing your tests.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah,
it's like we're testing our tests,
and making sure that our tests run.
And we want them to run, right?
It would actually be really interesting
to know if our tests aren't running.
If we're not covering all
the lines of code in our tests,
that would be like okay, yeah,
probably delete that stuff.
But what it's doing is it's inflating
our code coverage statistic.
Because if you look at this, this is 15%.
And we have 0% of our branches and
16% of our lines.
But we have 100% of our unit test.
And so if we look at the summary, it's
a lot better than 15% or 16% of lines.
And so it's inflating our code coverage.
And we can't really track the code
coverage of our app very well.
And so that's what the purpose of this
little bit of configuration here is.
And actually, yours truly added
this feature to this library,
copied it from a different one.
So I can't really claim too much credit.
But this is an important feature for
any code coverage tool is the ability to
not cover files that match
a certain file extension.
So all of our tests, and
we also have potentially stub the files
that would be related to our test as
well that we don't want to include
in our code coverage stats.
So then if we run the test again,
pop open our browser.
And we get new code coverage
summary that excludes the test.
>> Kent C Dodds: That all makes sense?
Clear as mud, hopefully clear.
Let me just make sure that
I covered everything here.
Feel free to interrupt me and
ask questions.
>> Kent C Dodds: One other thing that I
didn't mention earlier that I probably
should have.
Because you'll likely run into this
when you're doing this yourself.
Is this webpackMiddleware property that
just magically appeared in our config.
Yeah, I forgot to mention that.
We'll take this out and
I'll show you why this is important.
If we run our tests again,
we're going to get this webpack
wait until bundle is finished.
And then a whole bunch of output here
that's saying all of the modules that
it's loading.
As your application grows, this is
gonna get bigger and bigger and bigger.
And it's gonna really inflate
your output from your tests.
And it makes it a lot more
difficult to debug tests and stuff.
So that's what the purpose of
this webpackMiddleware is or
that's why it's there.
Is so that we just say, I don't care about
that stuff, just show me the output for
the test.
If you needed to debug something like
some module's not loading properly.
Or something that you might use,
something like that.
But otherwise, it's not necessary.
Cool, everybody having so much fun?
[LAUGH] Okay, cool, so I don't see.
Okay, there is one question from Henry.
Why is it choosing only one
file from the source directory?
Good question, so the reason that it's
only loading the controller.js file.
And that's actually perfect segue, Henry.
I'll pay you later.
It's only loading this controller file
because that's the only one
that's required by our test.
So to be a little bit more accurate,
Karma is saying, okay, my files.
I'm gonna go ahead and find all the files
that match this glob, this pattern.
There's only one.
And so it says, okay, let me load that.
But first,
I'm gonna preprocess it with Webpack.
And so I'll resolve this require.
And so that loads in controller.
Now controller doesn't match
the exclusion pattern that we have for
instrumentation so it instruments that.
But it doesn't load any
of the other files.
Karma doesn't load it.
Webpack is not gonna load it
because we're not requiring it.
And so that's why we only get
controller.js instrumented is because
it's the only one that's actually loaded
into the browser and instrumented it all.
So that's the next thing
that we're gonna solve.
Oscar is asking, how do you access
the coverage webpage open coverage.
So yeah, you could actually go into the
coverage directory, directory lcov-report.
And then right-click on the index.html or
open it however you do.
And I think I've gotta open a new window.
No, that's not gonna
do what I think it is.
I always just do it from the command line.
So it's open
coverage/lcov-report/index.html,
and that'll pop open my browser.
But yeah, it's just a static
file in your file system.
>> Kent C Dodds: Cool, so in ten minutes,
I showed you what took me
probably weeks and
months of time to get working.
But the tooling is so much better
than it used to be, so good times.
Yeah, so the next thing that we are gonna
do is just like Henry was talking about.
Is what we're getting here is coverage for
the files that have coverage.
But we're not getting a report on
coverage for the files in our project.
And that's what we really care about.
We want to find out, okay,
how many lines of code are not covered
in our tests in our entire project?
So that's the next step here.